# <title> 5.4 Strategic Customer Value  
Especially in the initial phases of a start-up, there is an additional customer value that entrepreneurs need to consider: their potential strategic value to the venture. Among the set of customer segments with positive inherent value, cer- tain ones are better positioned to help a venture successfully (a) navigate the S-curve market adoption pattern (i.e., there is alignment of the dominoes and no domino chain gaps as the venture moves from one customer segment to the next) and (b) positively influence the market adoption pattern (i.e., the dom- ino chain has customer segments of increasing market size). Understanding the strategic value of different customer segments helps prioritize the first customers (dominoes) to target.  
The strategic value of a customer may come in several different forms. For instance, some customer segments may help the venture’s team learn quickly and also rapidly improve and refine their product. This will help the product better serve not only that initial market, but also key follow-on markets. Impor- tantly, ventures can make use of early customer reaction and adoption to influ- ence future customers. In this respect, early customers who are influential to others can offer the highest strategic value.  
Let’s consider an example around the launch of the first successful, purely digital cryptocurrency, Bitcoin. It was invented by the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto and launched in 2009. Now, well over a decade later, it has proved a durable concept spurring many other cryptocurrencies and enthusiasm for broader applications based on its underlying blockchain technology. But back in 2014, while some were sure of Bitcoin’s durability, very few had heard of it. To encourage its adoption, after working for the Grameen Foundation for just over three years, then 29-year-old Dan Elitzer shifted gears to promote cryp- tocurrency and build an ecosystem around it.7 His first step was to raise half-a- million dollars to give every entering MIT undergraduate $100 in Bitcoin.8 This investment did not go unnoticed within MIT, and a few professors intervened to see if they could use this whole endeavor to run an experiment in technology adoption. As a result, instead of giving everyone $100 in Bitcoin at the same time as initially planned, the distribution was staggered. In some dormitories, early distribution was aimed at those who had expressed significant interest in the technology, while in other dormitories, the order of distribution was random. This variation created an experiment investigating how early access to a technology impacts not only the behavior of the recipient but also others within their network. The results were striking: in dormitories where early dis- tribution ended up being targeted to the “wrong” students (i.e., those who had expressed a low level of interest), the ultimate usage rate among all students in the dormitory was much lower than at dormitories whose early adopters were already evangelists for the new technology.9 In other words, choosing the right initial customer was critical for navigating along a more favorable market adop- tion S curve and gaining broader adoption. Returning to our domino analogy, to topple the first domino, it is simply easier and more strategic to start with individuals who have a prior interest in the product and see it as creating value than those with limited awareness or little interest. Given this information, how does one know where to start?

# # <title> FIVE CUSTOMER TYPES

Research has shown we can break down the market adoption pattern into five types of customers and adoption behaviors. As seen in **Table 5.1**, new products and services that are ultimately successful offer distinctive value (and have distinctive costs) across each different group of potential adopters: innova- tors, early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards. Per this table, each group has distinctive characteristics for why they adopt a product and the ultimate value they derive from it.
This concept, synthesized by the noted sociologist Everett Rogers in the early 1960s, is known as the **Customer Adoption Lifecycle**. It helps founders consider who their most promising customer is and how different potential customer segments are likely to relate to each other. For example, innovators and early adopters derive benefits simply from the novelty of a technology, product, or service; being able to “experiment” with an early-stage inno- vation; and/or being among the first to possess it. They are generally less concerned with technical bugs or occasional failures as they know this some- times comes with early access to new innovations (see **Using the Research: The Hazards of Ignoring Early Adopters**). In contrast, *mainstream* users, con- stituting the *early majority* and *late majority* of adopters, derive benefit from standardized technology and when a product or service has clear use cases and widespread adoption. However, while customers may classify as innova- tors with some product categories, they may fall into other adopter groups for other use cases; for example, an audiophile may quickly adopt new audio and acoustic technologies but may be risk averse when it comes to Bitcoin or self-driving cars.  
  
**The First Smartphone.** Fifteen years before Apple introduced the now- ubiquitous iPhone, the first smart- phone was released. The IBM Simon by BellSouth was described as the first product that “takes all the gadgetry
of the modern business executive and puts it into one unit.” However, despite these innovations, the design was not well suited for the executive on the
go: it was heavy, and the battery rarely survived a commute. As a result, the innovative new product ultimately created little value for any customers outside of technology enthusiasts.   
**Customer Adoption Lifecycle** The breakdown of market adoption patterns into five customer types: innovators, early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards.

Making distinctions in how value is derived from a new product among dif- fering segments of users has long been a central challenge of technology market- ing. By closely examining what drives customers in distinct segments to move toward new products, new categories of products and which types of customer might be the first adopters can be defined. Perhaps the clearest example of this



